# digitalfrontier.cc

Welcome to digitalfrontier.cc!

Technology shapes how we live, work, and think—but are we engaging with it critically? 

digitalfrontier.cc is a space for exploring our relationship with technology and media. We attempt to find an answer on how we can navigate today's world with technology in a way that is ethical and meaningful.

Our mission is to create a central place for people to learn about our relationschip to technology and media. Here, you'll find thoughtful discussions, resources, and ideas aimed at those willing to engage beyond the surface, serving as a compass, guiding individuals toward deeper understanding and critical engagement with technology. See [[mission_statement]].

New to the wiki? Get started here.

* [Why & How to leave Meta](articles/how_to_leave_meta)
* [The myth of free speech on social media](articles/the_myth_of_free_speech_on_social_media) (not even done or started yet)
* [How the algorithmic internet is hurting us](articles/how_the_algorithmic_internet_is_hurting_us) (not even done or started yet)
* [The case against using ChatGPT](articles/the_case_against_chatgpt) (not even done or started yet)
* [Philosophies for your relationship with technology] (to do)
* [Sustainable computing] (to do)

Quick access:

* [[philosophies]] - A collection of philosophies on how we should interact with technology and how technology should be.
* [(media) liberary](medialibrary) - extensive list of resourses to create a better understanding of media and technology.
* [[internet_culture]] - Looking at internet history to make sense of how we got here.
* [[spaces_and_places]] - Physical and digital spaces to meet new people.

Guides:

* [Desiging ethically responsible applications as a software engineer]

Want to contribute? Great! See [[contributing]]. Also see [[roadmap]].
